Earlier
in the course, you learned that JavaScript is a dynamic language, so we can
declare a variable, set it to a number, and then change it's
type and set it to a string, and that's perfectly fine from the
perspective of a JavaScript engine. This is one of the characteristics of a dynamic
language. But we have the same concept in the arguments
of a function. So I'm going to define a function here
call it sum, that has two parameters,
a and b. And here we simply return the sum
of a and b. Now, let's do a console.log,
and call the sum function, pass 1 and 2.
Save the changes, so we get 3. But in JavaScript,
it doesn't matter that this function has 2 parameters, we can
pass only 1 argument. So in this case we get
not a number. Because here a is 1 and b
by default is undefined. So when we have 1 plus
undefined, the result is not a number, this is not a valid
arithmetic operation. The same happens if we don't pass
any arguments. So we don't get an error, we get not a number
as a result. By the same token, we can pass additional
arguments. So in this case we can pass let's say
5 arguments. And that's perfectly valid JavaScript code. So when you
save this, we still get 3, because only the
first 2 arguments are used. But what if you want to have a varying
number of parameters in a function? What if you want to have
the flexibility to pass as many arguments as we want, and get
their sum. Well, every function in JavaScript has a
special object called arguments. Let's log this on
the console, console.log
so this is the arguments object,
you can see that it kind of looks like an array, but it's not an array, it's an object.
But the keys we have in this object are
indexes of the arguments passed to this function. So,
the first argument is 1, the second argument is 2, and so on.
Here we have a length property that returns the number of arguments
that are passed, we have this other property, callee
which returns the currently executed function, so you see we have a reference
to our sum function. So this is the arguments object. Now if you
want to have a function with a varying number of parameters to work
with all the arguments that are passed to this function. So let's
say we want to change this function to return the sum of all
these arguments. Here's a very simple algorithm. So, we declare
a variable called total, set it to 0,
then we can use the for of loop. So let
value of arguments we can use this loop to
iterate over this arguments object. Now earlier, I told you that
we can use the for of loop, on arrays, but technically this loop
can be used on any object that has an iterator. So
the plain objects that we create with the object literal syntax, they don't have an
iterator, but this particular object you can see, here we have
symbol.iterator. That means this object has an iterator
so we can use the for loop. To iterate this object. Now
for every argument we're going to
get that and add it to our total variable. And finally
we will return total.
Now save the changes, we get 15, we can add
another argument, and we get 25.
Now here's the interesting thing. We can completely remove these
parameters here, because technically here we're working with the
arguments object to access the arguments that have passed here. We're not referencing
a or b anywhere in the body of
this function. So we can simplify this code and remove
these parameters. In the next lecture, we're going to look at a better way to
implement this function.